add Wrangler 'find_additional_modules' documentation (#17524)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/wrangler/bundling.mdx

title: Bundling
head: []
description: Review Wrangler's default bundling.
---

By default, Wrangler bundles your Worker code using [`esbuild`](https://esbuild.github.io/). This means that Wrangler has built-in support for importing modules from [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) defined in your `package.json`. To review the exact code that Wrangler will upload to Cloudflare, run `npx wrangler deploy --dry-run --outdir dist`, which will show your Worker code after Wrangler's bundling.

:::note

> Wrangler's inbuilt bundling usually provides the best experience, but we understand there are cases where you will need more flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrangler's built-in bundling usually provides the best experience, but we understand there are cases where you will need more flexibility.
```

You can provide `rules` and set `find_additional_modules` in your configuration to control which files are included in the deployed Worker but not bundled into the entry-point file.

> Furthermore, we have an escape hatch in the form of [Custom Builds](/workers/wrangler/custom-builds/), which lets you run your own build before Wrangler's built-in one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need more control, you can use [Custom Builds](/workers/wrangler/custom-builds/), which lets you configure your own build command that runs before Wrangler's built-in one.
```

:::

## Including non-JavaScript modules

> Bundling your Worker code takes multiple modules and bundles them into one file.
> Sometimes, you might have modules that cannot be inlined directly into the bundle.
> For example, instead of bundling a Wasm file into your JavaScript Worker, you would want to upload the Wasm file as a separate module that can be imported at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bundling your Worker code takes multiple modules and bundles them into one file.
However, sometimes you might have modules that cannot be inlined directly into JavaScript file.
In that case, Wrangler will discover these files and include them in your Worker separately.
For example, instead of bundling a Wasm file into your JavaScript Worker, Wrangler will automatically upload the Wasm file as a separate module that can be imported at runtime.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Bundling your Worker code takes multiple modules and bundles them into one file.
However, sometimes you might have modules that cannot be inlined directly into the JavaScript file.
In that case, Wrangler can discover these files and include them in your Worker separately.
For example, instead of bundling a Wasm file into your JavaScript Worker, Wrangler can upload the Wasm file as a separate module that can be imported at runtime.
```

const instance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(wasm); // Instantiate Wasm modules in global scope, not within the fetch() handler

export default {
	fetch(request) {
		const result = instance.exports.exported_func();
	},
};
```

:::caution

Cloudflare Workers does not support `WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming()`.
:::

## Find additional modules

By setting `find_additional_modules` to `true` in your configuration file, Wrangler will traverse the file tree below `base_dir`.
Any files that match the `rules` you define will also be included as unbundled, external modules in the deployed Worker.

This approach is useful for supporting lazy loading of large or dynamically imported JavaScript files:

> - Normally, a large lazy-imported file (for example, `await import("./large-dep.mjs")`) would be bundled directly into your entrypoint, reducing the effectiveness of the lazy loading.

Reviewer: Even if you upload these as separate modules, don't we still have an issue?

https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd/issues/2372

Or am I misunderstanding the problem there?

cc @jasnell

Author: There is definitely still a cost, since as I understand it, we do parse all modules at start up. The main difference, unless I am mistaken is that we don't execute the code in the lazy module until it is imported.
Despite this, we found that next-on-pages start up time was improved dramatically by splitting out chunks from the main entry-point, so there is some benefit.
Also, once we update the implementation in workerd this will become significantly improved, so things can only get better if you use this approach.

>   If matching rule is added to `rules`, then this file would only be loaded and executed at runtime when it is actually imported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If a matching rule is added to `rules`, then this file would only be loaded and executed in the runtime when it is actually imported.
```

> - Previously, variable based dynamic imports (for example, ``await import(`./lang/${language}.mjs`)``) would always fail at runtime because Wrangler had no way of knowing which modules to include in the upload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Without `find_additional_modules`, variable-based dynamic imports (for example, ``await import(`./lang/${language}.mjs`)``) would always fail at runtime because Wrangler had no way of knowing which modules to include in the upload.
```

>   Providing a rule that matches all these files, such as { type = "EsModule", globs = ["./land/**/*.mjs"], fallthrough = true }, will ensure this module is available at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Providing a rule that matches all these files, such as { type = "ESModule", globs = ["./land/**/*.mjs"], fallthrough = true }, will ensure this module is available at runtime.
```
